# space-invaders
Space Invaders implemented on a Nexys-3

In this project, we are creating a simplified version of the game Space Invaders and implementing it using a Nexys-3 FPGA. The game includes a user controlled spaceship on the bottom of the screen which is used to fire rockets at the computer controlled enemy alien on the top of the screen. The FPGA receives inputs from the user through push buttons while displaying the game graphics via a VGA monitor.

The objective is to implement a simplified version of Space Invaders. In this game, a user controller spaceship moves along the x-axis at the bottom of the display with the capability of shooting rockets at the enemy alien. The alien oscillates across the top of the display while incrementing along the y-axis towards the spaceship each time after reaching the sides of the display. As the alien is oscillating across the display, rockets are fired at the spaceship at regular intervals controlled by a slower clock. The objective for the user, in order to win the game, is to hit the alien with the spaceship rockets before the alien reaches the spaceship while avoiding the alien rockets. This design is implemented through 5 modules controlling the spaceship, spaceship rocket, alien, alien rocket, and the core module. The design also utilizes 4 additional modules to debounce the pushbutton input signals. Each pushbutton utilizes the continuous clock-enable output of the debouncer module. The spaceship module is responsible for updating the x and y position variables corresponding to the spaceship coordinates as well as inhibiting the spaceship to travel outside the bounds of the display. The spaceship module also activates a flag if the alien rocket hits the spaceship which is determined by the x and y coordinate variables of the alien rocket and spaceship equaling each other. The alien module is responsible for updating the x and y position variables corresponding to the alien coordinates as well as inhibiting the alien to travel outside the bounds of the display. The alien module also activates a flag if the spaceship rocket hits the alien which is determined by the x and y coordinate variables of the spaceship rocket and alien equaling each other. The alien and spaceship rocket modules are both used to control the movement of the rockets. When the rocket is fired, its position is initialized to the x and y position of the object that fired it. While maintaining a fixed x position, the rocket’s y position is incremented if it is shot by the spaceship or decremented if it is shot by the alien. The rocket continues its trajectory until it hits the other object or goes out of the range of the display.

The user interface is controlled by pushbuttons, SSD, and VGA display. Pushbuttons btnU, btnL, btnR, and btnC correspond to fire, move left, move right, and reset, respectively. The user lives are displayed on SSD[2] while the user score is displayed on SSD[1] and SSD[0]. The spaceship, alien, and rocket x and y coordinates are all stored in their respective variables which are then used to display each object using the VGA display. The spaceship is displayed as green, the alien is displayed and blue, and both rockets are displayed as red.
